---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

This week, it looks like we're preparing for our first exam and going over the contents of IDB1. I've talked to some people outisde of the group I worked in for Netflix, and I think my partner from that lab and I have a general idea who we're going to be working with for IDB. I'm excited to get to divide up the work into separate functioning parts, and allow each person in our group to specialize on a certain aspect. The writing portion seems like it might prove to be a bit daunting, but since we're working as a group, it shouldn't be too bad. 

Last week my partner and I finished Netflix. Unfortunately I was unable to get cosine similarity working within the time bounds we needed. The spec required that we could get through the entire probe.txt in under 1 minute, and computing the cosine similarity across all 480,000+ users that appear in probe was too computatively complex to do dynamically and way too big to cache. However, some initial work for smaller problem sizes indicate it likely would've been an even better solution than the one we came up with using basic statistical information. For the RunNetflix.in subset of probe that we came up with, our statistics-only prediction function came up with an RMSE of around .88, with around .97 for probe. For the same RunNetflix.in, averaging the statistical guess with our cosine-similarity-based guess got us down to .84, which is a considerable boost. I believe that for Probe it would've been enough to get us decently below .95, but without a more efficient method of computing cosine similarity, or more computing power, I can't really be certain. Given some more time to come up with a better means of calculating cosine similarity, and possibly even working in a quicker language like C++ for the calculations, it would've been cool to see the results, but as the deadline got closer, my partner and I decided to focus more on the minimum viable product so we could at least meet the basic requirements. All in all, Netflix was a very interesting project, and I personally enjoyed it much more than Collatz.

tip-of-the-week: 
To make working from home on my desktop more doable, I spent a weekend installing (Windows Subsystem for Linux)[https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/install_guide], which basically lets you run bash via something similar to an Ubuntu Chroot (with links to your Windows folders), and lets you do serious development work on a Windows machine with ease. Right now I'm mainly using it for this class and my own basic development tools for personal coding, but it's very versatile and can be used to do some really cool things like (running XFCE)[http://imgur.com/8UGNBdL]. Definitely worth checking out for anyone with a Windows machine as their daily driver who wishes it was a bit more versatile for dev work. I highly recommend it and it's surprisingly stable.
