---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

This week, we're continuing work on the [Netflix Prize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix_Prize) problem. We're still playing around with what metrics get us what average RMSE scores. I definitely think it's possible to get below 1.00, but I'd like to see just how low we can get that score. I've got a feeling that using cosine similarity between the user we're guessing for and the users' scores for the movie we're guessing for as weights might improve our results, and I'd like to try implementing that if we're given enough time. This week's a bit hectic as it seems like many students are starting to get their first round of exams this semester, and there's also a lot of recruiting events and the CNS Career Fair going on, which should keep us pretty busy.

Last week my partner and I put a first dent into Netflix. We still need to add Travis CI and some of the other environment setup, but we've built out the base of the project and have even written a decent amount of tests. 

tip-of-the-week: 
This tip-of-the-week is pretty simple, but it's something I didn't know about until this week, and felt it was worthy of sharing: I'd always wondered how command-line tools managed to print status-bars directly into the terminal, wondering how it was possible to print a "dynamic line" that could change values. The answer is pretty simple, but I hadn't caught onto it until now: They just print a carriage-return! If you just print something like *"\rprogress: " + (progress)* every time progress changes, you can have a "dynamic" line that updates itself. Pretty obvious and intuitive, but worth knowing if/when you might need to implement such a thing!
