---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

Last week we finished IDB phase 1. There was certainly a lot of work to be done, but we managed to get it all done in time for the deadline. Now that most of the groundwork has been laid out for the website, I'm excited to start doing some real work on the API. We want to use Wikipedia to get information about Authors, Publishers, and Books (our 3 pillars), but the Wikipedia API is very outdated and doesn't quite provide the exact information that we need, so I plan on writing a parser/handler that pulls out this information in a structured way that'll best suit our database design. One difficulty we're facing is knowing what books to grab for our website. We know that there are certain conditions we'd like to check for, like if the book has an available cover image and amazon id, but we're not sure how to pick a subset to even check these conditions on. Because there are so many entries in OpenLibrary, we need some way of filtering them to begin with since checking each entry manually would be effectively impossible. We've discussed some close-enough solutions, like cross-referencing with a website like Wikipedia and only including books we find there, but we still haven't come up with a sufficiently clean approach.

This week it looks like we're going over new technologies and the spec for Phase 2, and my team and I are going to start figuring out what features need to be implemented. 

tip-of-the-week: 
  I was looking for some useful libraries for a personal project I'm working on, and I came across an awesome plugin called [Video.js](http://videojs.com/). It's a javascript plugin for playing videos in HTML5, with lots of useful features like caption-support and even skins. [This jsfiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/bababalcksheep/0a5u3ew4/2/) does a good job of showing off how easy it is to get an embedded video player in just a few lines. My plan is to write an app for reading a user's media files and providing a netflix-like interface that detects movies and tv shows in a specified directory and allows an in-browser method of watching said videos, essentially like a simplified version of [Plex](https://www.plex.tv) but without any of the streaming stuff. I'm still in the preliminary stages, but I want to build this so I have a portable option for playing media files on lightweight devices such as my Chromebook, and there are definitely some useful open source tools that will make implementing this much easier.
