---
layout: post
title: Final week
---

It took us a lot of effort, but we were able to finish LitDB in its entirety by the deadline! We just went over the presentation today and are ready to present the site in class tomorrow. There were a lot of challenges for this assignment, and it made for a good learning experience in the ways a project evolves over time as things change and goals become slightly different. I'm certainly very impressed with Angular JS, and as a person who's mostly worked with Backbone before, I think Angular might be worth picking up and getting mroe familiar with for the future. On the backend side, I certainly got much more acquainted with certain python tools like Beautiful Soup. Both Authors and Publishers, two out of our three pillars for the project, came directly from Wikipedia, so I had to do some custom parsing to get information from the articles that matched up with the columns of information we wanted for each author and each publisher. This was also the first project I'd done where I had to use Google's APIs pretty heavily. Luckily, Google does a good job of documenting their APIs, and apart from the Google Books API going down the morning of our Phase 3 submission, things went pretty smoothly there. Google's Knowledge Graph is also a very useful tool, but unfortunately it seems like the version of the Graph exposed in their API is several versions outdated compared to the one that is used for Google searches today. This might just be so other companies can't crawl their entire knowledge graph, but it's kindof annoying considering almost all of their data comes directly from Wikipedia anyway. Overall, this project was a lot more interesting and useful than I had anticipated, and I'm glad everything worked so well between our team members, and that we were able to create something awesome together.

This week, it looks like we're just presenting our websites on Tuesday, and taking our final exam in this class on Thursday. 

tip-of-the-week: 
  At work, I've been spending a lot of time adding PATCH operations to a lot of our service-layer code, and when I was doing my research, I came across [this simple website](http://jsonpatch.com/) that helped me understand what the PATCH payload is supposed to look like. PATCH is a bit of an unsolved problem at this point - there are certainly many different standards and iterations, but there doesn't seem to be one canonical answer for how to do everything. JSON Patch also has several libraries for implementing PATCH in different languages. Most of the GitHub repos aren't very popular, but especially for a first-pass, the libraries can be pretty useful.
