---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

Last week my team and I got together and discussed implementation details for IDB1. We decided to go with the name LitDB, with "Lit" being a shortened form of literature while also supplying us with a fantastically meme-connoting title. Thus far, we've got our [flask server setup at our domain](litdb.me), and we're starting to work on the API. We've also done some research on what resources we want to take advantage of most, and we've settled on for the time-being using the [OpenLibrary API](https://openlibrary.org/developers/api) and creating a scraper of Wikipedia for Books, Authors, and Publishers (the idea being that we can use Wikipedia for photos, the short bio at the top of the entry, and possibly even the information displayed in the card that goes on the side of the page (the one containing birth date and similar biographical information). We were also thinking it would be cool to do Amazon and/or Goodreads integration, but have not gotten to the stage in development where we've done much of the ground work to see if attempting that would be worthwhile.

This week it's more work on the project before the deadline. I'm working on the report portion, as well as picking up the slack on Frontend and the Flask server when some of our members leave for interviews halfway through the week. 

tip-of-the-week: 
  I saw an interesting post this week about [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/), a package manager designed with the help of Google and Facebook to essentially be a faster, more efficient replacement for npm. I haven't messed around with it much myself, but [anecdotal benchmarks certainly look promising](https://www.berriart.com/blog/2016/10/npm-yarn-benchmark/). If this gets traction (and with how many people are contributing to it, I think it will), it'll be cool to see this be successful. Npm is a truly great tool, but its biggest drawback is the associated install times, and improvements in that department are certainly welcome in my book.
