---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

Last week we took our first exam in class. We haven't gotten grades back yet, but I left the test feeling at least moderately positive about it. Other than that I mostly focused on personal work and other classes, as IDB1 hadn't been posted yet.

This week, it looks like we're diving into IDB1. Luckily, I've already got a group for this project. We've created a Facebook group to discuss thoughts in, and plan to switch over to Slack in the near future. I'm genuinely excited about this project, as it seems it's open-ended enough that we'll get to see some vastly different implementations, which will be cool. I also like that the group size is so large at 5 people, as it means that we'll be given a wider range of skills to work with, and (hopefully) more room to cater our tasks to our strengths. We've reserved coming up with an exact topic to after the rundown of the project spec in class, but my group has already discussed a few options and we've come up with some ideas that should be pretty interesting. I'm also very curious to see what ideas everyone comes up with.

tip-of-the-week: 
  I found [this interesting collection of interviews](http://shmuplations.com/mario64/) from Shigeru Miyamoto and several of the other developers behind Super Mario 64, a game that's certainly one of the most - if not THE most - influential title in the history of 3D video games. The developer roundtable interview (near the middle of the linked page) is probably the most interesting part, as it contains information from several different developers. It's interesting hearing them talk about developing the game without having the N64 console finished yet, and their design process developing both simultaneously. It's a bit long, but the middle part is certainly worth a read.
