---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

This week, we have our first exam in Software Engineering. Looking over some of the notes so far, I'm not too nervous about the test, but I certainly want to ensure I've set enough time aside for studying. I expect we'll likely go over more material in class tomorrow before taking the exam on Thursday.

Last week I had two exams in my other classes, and I took advantage of not having to work on any labs to get some time to work on some personal projects. One of them was a simple Python script for ripping the audio from music mixes on YouTube and splitting them up into albums based on the time-stamps in the video description. Thanks to three great tools I found, it was actually much easier to get set up than I had anticipated, although I had to familiarize myself a bit with different audio codecs and the ID3 specifications for different versions.

tip-of-the-week: 
  [youtube-dl](https://rg3.github.io/youtube-dl/) made the initial task of downloading from YouTube about as seamless as possible. The tool emulates a "user" to hit the specified video url and then extracts the video (or audio) directly from the YouTube player after the DASH-encoded data has already been decoded (DASH is a tool used by many online streaming websites for streaming video that dynamically changes its quality depending on your connection speed, and it can make ripping a bit more difficult). I also found a great tool called [pydub](http://pydub.com/) that makes it easy to manipulate audio files and then export them in different codecs using [avconv](https://libav.org/avconv.html). 
