---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

With this week comes our first serious deadline with Project 1: Collatz. I was at first pretty worried about all of the tools we're required to integrate into our project, but upon getting warmed up to Travis CI, I love it! The UI is pretty clean, and the git integration is awesome. I've used TeamCity before at a past internship, and think Travis CI is much easier to get used to. As I went out of town for the 3-day weekend UT gives us for Labor Day, I'm not as far along as of this blog post as I'd like to be, but there's no time like the present to buckle down and get it finished!

Most of my work the past week was getting started on Project 1. I've got a dynamic cache set up that is working against my own tests, but I have not yet tried SPOJ's tests, which I anticipate will require me to optimize more and cover some unforeseen corner cases. Getting re-acquainted with Python has proven to be a bit challenging. The last tiem I ever did any heavy work in the language was over a year ago for some Computational Semantics projects, in which the main focus was learning and using new libraries and not so much in writing "good" python code. My hope is that by the end of the semester, I'll have a nice collection of my private code repos to look back to whenever I need a refresher, and the boilerplate code that's been set out for us already made organizing my code for this project very seamless. 

For this week, I definitely plan on putting in some late-night work to get everything finished on time. So far I've been using vim over ssh so I don't have to go to the CS lab to do my work, but that will likely prove more difficult once we start working with bigger projects with larger code spaces.

tip-of-the-week: 
For anyone looking for a cheap, lightweight Linux laptop, I've been having great success with a relatively cheap Chromebook using a tool called Crouton (https://github.com/dnschneid/crouton). Since Chrome OS uses the Linux kernel, a filesystem feature called "chrooting" can be utilized to essentially run one linux distro inside another, and Crouton is an awesome project that allows you to get set up on Chrome OS almost seamlessly. Support and documentation for it is surprisingly high, and it is still regularly updated to support tons of different chromeboook models. If you ever find yourself without a computer and needing an affordable replacement, I can't recommend Chrome OS and Crouton highly enough.
